>> Mathew DesLauriers: Okay,
now we can start to play with these values
a bit more.
We can start to try and create something
that looks a bit more interesting.
So the first thing I'm gonna do is just do
the same thing we're doing with position
and set the scale to three random values.
Just copy pasting.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
then I'm going to increase the number of
meshes,
>> Mathew DesLauriers: To something
larger.
I'm just going to play
with these values a bit.
Increase the size.
So multiply scale, remember,
is another of way of saying,
I want to multiply the x,
y, z by the same value.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And then the other
thing that maybe we can do from this
morning, we can just do it again, is to
try and add some random colors to this.
So one way to do that is again to
bring in the random color palettes.
So we'll just do that now.
At the very top of our file
require nice color palettes and
this is not the only way to
produce random color palettes.
Another thing we can do is that's really
powerful is to take HSL and produce
random variations of HSL and that's maybe
something to do as an exercise later.
Later on, but for now we'll just use
a random color palette module again.
So we require it up here and
then somewhere before our four loop
let's just select a single a palette.
So we do random.pick.
Palettes and then again we're gonna select
a single color from that single palette.
So random.pick(palette).
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And we can start to
see things are coming together a little
bit more.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
every time we reload,
we're starting to get
some more interesting.
Results.
And some of them are actually pretty nice.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: We can use some
of the same tricks we did this morning,
we can use Gaussian randoms.
So maybe instead of always using a range
that produces a uniform randomness,
we can use Gaussian randomness.
We can also do some other stuff like that,
we can.
Set the rotation maybe of the mesh,
which we'll get into a bit.
But the next thing I wanna
do is add a bit of lighting.
Just so that we have some
of the basics covered, and
then we can work our way through them.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So after we've
done our four loop, lets add a light.
And our light is gonna
be a directional light.
And the constructor, just remember at
any point if you're stuck with these
methods or these classes, three.js
has a really extensive documentation.
So if you go back to the GitHub repo,
you go to three.js and check out the docs,
they have docs on all these things so
we can find directional light.
And it gives us what the arguments are for
the constructor, and
it also gives us little examples
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
so the way it works is
you pass in a color.
Let's just use red.
I like to use red as a test,
just so I can actually see it.
Sometimes if you use white,
it doesn't look that different.
And then the second value is
the intensity of the light.
And then before we see anything we
actually have to add it to our scene
because right now it's
not even in our scene.
So once it's in our scene
this light will get used but
remember what I was saying earlier about
materials is that this particular material
we're using is not gonna respect the
lighting that we're using in our scene.
So we actually have to go up and
change this
MeshBasic(Material) to be
MeshStandard(Material).
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
everything is gonna be very red and
that's because our light is very red.
So you can go back to being white and
if it all works you should
have something like this.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: You're starting to
get something that it's a bit closer to
this maybe monument
valley type of artwork.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: One
thing we can also try and
do is place the light in
a different position.
So the way this works is
you do light.position.
And you set the xyz,
I'm gonna set it to maybe be 0,
4, 0, which means that the light is
directly above the center of the world.
So it's perfectly above the center of the
world that it doesn't produce any shadows
on the sides of the cubes.
And if I was to make it maybe
directly to the right or left,
or forward or backward of the world
using 0, 0 and then some number.
We're gonna see that it's only
lighting up a single side of the cube.
And I think that's kind of interesting for
the image that we're trying to create.
But you might also wanna place it in a way
that lights up all the different sides
of the cube or
most of the sides of the cube.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And then if you've
gotten this far one last thing we'll do is
just add what's called an ambient light.
So an ambient light and I'll show
you by setting these values to be 0,
0, 4, so that we have a very harsh light
coming from one part of the scene.
And the directional light is just like,
it's a light that comes from one part, and
just sort of acts a bit like the sun, it's
just like blasts light all over your scene
kind of thing, and you'll notice that this
part that isn't lit by a light is black.
And so one thing we can do with an ambient
light, is we can set this color,
instead of being black,
to be a different color.
So you can scene.add{new
THREE.AmbientLight,
and you can set that color
to whatever you want.
And what that's gonna do is when three.js
sees part of your mesh that isn't
very well lit by the lights,
it's gonna use a bit of this blue,
or a bit of whatever color you want.
So quite often I just use like
a really low, really dark color.
So if you use HSL,
you can produce a really dark grey
like 10% light or at 20% light.
And then that's just gonna be so
that it's not perfectly black but
it's a little bit grey.
And that's a really subtle change.
Sometimes you can use a bit of a purpley
color and it looks pretty cool.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So so far we have
sorta introduced some new stuff here, and
we're still trying to wrap
your heads around how all of
this positioning stuff works,
and that's okay.
But maybe by now you'll have some cubes
being rendered in different colors, and
the next logical step is to see how do
we actually introduce animation and
how do we bring this into a bit more life.